All right.
So the next component that I want to build out is a profile image component.
And it will be that profile image that appears in the top right corner of our website when the user
signs in.
So as I mentioned, we're not going to have an actual authentication system and we're not even going
to have a custom user image because that would require us saving some kind of data on the backend in
some kind of database.
And we want to keep this app pretty simple.
So what I'm going to do instead is just use a hardcoded image.
So right here, my second tab, I have a nice PNG image of link from the Legend of Zelda franchise.
And I have provided this link as a resource to this lesson or perhaps as a text article before this
lesson, so that you can copy this link for yourself.
I'm just going to be using this image within my project.
All right.
So let's go ahead here.
What I'm going to do is transition back to Visual Studio code and in my components directory, I'm going
to create a brand new component.
I'm going to call it profile image, port view.
All right, so what do we need in a view component?
We need a template tag.
And in here, I'm going to insert an image tag.
So IMG.
And of course, to provide the source of the image, we have to use our S or C attribute.
And so right here, I'm going to paste that link that I just had in my browser.
That is my PNG G link.
I'm going to close off my image tag right here and below.
I also want to add a couple Tailwind classes, so I'm going to add class here.
I want to make this image 32 pixels by 32 pixels in terms of height and width.
So I can apply aw8 class to make the width 32 pixels.
Remember, all w classes deal with width and tailwind and we have a complementary set of utility access
classes that start with H ages for height.
And so I want to apply H eight here as well.
That is a height of 32 pixels.
And then I also want to apply a class called Object Contain.
What this is going to do is force the image to resize itself to fit the 32 by 32 dimensions that I've
specified for it.
And finally, I want to make our profile image rounded.
I want to make it circular so I can do that by providing the rounded three Excel class here.
Now, in case you're curious about as hard coding, this asserts the attribute.
It's definitely not ideal because this image is not reusable in the sense that we can't make the image
dynamic right.
It's always going to be this picture of link that we get directly from this URL.
And of course we do want to eventually add customization to our components.
We're going to talk about how to do that in just a little bit.
All right.
But just for now, we're going to hard code this.
And in fact, we might move this component to a little bit more of a flexible approach in just a minute.
But for now, this is good enough for me for our template.
So let's also define our script tags.
And here as always, we're going to export default a JavaScript object and we'll provide our profile
image with a name property and we'll call it profile image and add a line break here and save the file.
Okay.
So now we have an opportunity to review some of the concepts introduced earlier in the course in an
attempt to make this component a little bit more flexible.
I do want to move this piece of data away from our template so that it's not hardcoded directly to my
RC attribute, because otherwise, as we talked about, it will always be this image.
So let's imagine I have some data attached to our profile image and I'm going to provide my data method
right here, and I'm going to return a JavaScript object.
This will be the data available, in my view, component.
And let's say I have an image link property and I'm going to set it equal to this URL right here.
So I'm going to copy this string directly and I'm going to paste it right here.
And my question for you is, how can we connect the data that we have right here in image link to our
answers to attribute dynamically?
In other words, and here's a hint how can we bind a piece of data on our component to an attribute
in our HTML template?
Well, you may recall that we have our v bind view directive.
Right?
And how does that work?
Well, we start with the V bind syntax before the attribute that we want to connect to or bind to.
So right here I'm going to do V bind and then it's a colon syntax.
We did this earlier with an anchor tag where we bound to the h ref attribute, but we can bind to any
H to my attribute that we want on any single element.
So in this case, I'm going to bind myself to the associate attribute on my image element and what value
do I want to provide to SLC?
It's whatever value I have on my image linked property in data.
So I'm going to provide image link.
All right.
So even though this isn't necessarily going to make it any more dynamic because our data is still going
to be bound and hard coded.
Well, it still moves us a little bit more in a flexible direction, because although we haven't discussed
that yet, there are ways to change this image link.
And if we're able to change the value of our image like URL to another image, well then we will automatically
provide that image and we can swap out the CRC of our image and thus dynamically render a brand new
image in the same component.
Right.
So it moves a little bit more in a flexible direction.
We don't know how to change this value yet, but it is a little bit of a better design and thinking
forward to having a more flexible component.
This is a slightly better design than what we started with.
All right.
So of course, Iceland gives us a warning here.
And the reason is because it wants us to use the shortcut syntax for V bind and that is just the colon.
So once again, a colon to bind the accuracy attribute to the image like property on our data object.
All right.
That's all there really is to cover here.
You might have a question, which is, do we really need tests for this component right now?
And I'd argue right now, not really.
At the end of the day, it's a basic image tag.
There's not much behavior.
Maybe later on we would add a test once we start to figure out what exactly this component is doing
for us.
But right now, it's kind of a basic static piece of HTML that doesn't really change or vary or have
much user interaction.
So for now, I'm going to be okay with not writing a test, but maybe later will come back and add some
tests to this as well.
All right.
So now that we have our profile image rendered, we can go ahead and start trying to render it in our
main NAV.